Refactor the hwids functionality (#5418)
fwupd/fwupd: docs/hwids.md

---
title: Hardware IDs
---

## Introduction

Hardware IDs are used by fwupd to identify specific hardware.
This is useful as the device-specific identifiers may be the same for different firmware streams.
Each hardware ID has varying levels of specificity for the hardware, for instance matching only the
system OEM, or matching up to 8 fields including the system BIOS version.

For instance, Dell and Lenovo might ship a wireless broadband modem with the same chip vendor and
product IDs of `USB\VID_413C&PID_81D7` and although the two OEMs share the same internal device,

> the firmware may be different.

Reviewer: Bad example.  `0x413c` is Dell

Author: Gotcha, Fixed.

To cover this case fwupd allows adding `hardware` requirements that mean we can deploy firmware that

> targets `USB\VID_413C&PID_81D7`, but *only for Dell* or *only for Lenovo* systems.

Reviewer: Don't use USB for an example.  You want something that's in a machine and can't be moved.

Author: I've used a USB realtek webcam as a better example.

Reviewer: That works too, thanks.

Microsoft calls these values "CHIDs" and they are generated on Windows using the `ComputerHardwareIds.exe`

> binary which can be found [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/devtest/computerhardwareids).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
binary which can be found [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/dashboard/using-chids).
```

> The list of Windows 10 CHIDs are:

Reviewer: Although some are only valid for Win 10 or newer, suggest dropping the 10.  If we need to disambiguate less then 10 that's not needed in this context to me.

Author: Fixed, agreed.

| `HardwareID-0`  | Manufacturer + Family + Product Name + SKU Number + BIOS Vendor + BIOS Version + BIOS Major Release + BIOS Minor Release
| `HardwareID-1`  | Manufacturer + Family + Product Name + BIOS Vendor + BIOS Version + BIOS Major Release + BIOS Minor Release
| `HardwareID-2`  | Manufacturer + Product Name + BIOS Vendor + BIOS Version + BIOS Major Release + BIOS Minor Release
| `HardwareID-3`  | Manufacturer + Family + ProductName + SKU Number + Baseboard_Manufacturer + Baseboard_Product
| `HardwareID-4`  | Manufacturer + Family + ProductName + SKU Number
| `HardwareID-5`  | Manufacturer + Family + ProductName
| `HardwareID-6`  | Manufacturer + SKU Number + Baseboard_Manufacturer + Baseboard_Product
| `HardwareID-7`  | Manufacturer + SKU Number
| `HardwareID-8`  | Manufacturer + ProductName + Baseboard_Manufacturer + Baseboard_Product
| `HardwareID-9`  | Manufacturer + ProductName
| `HardwareID-10` | Manufacturer + Family + Baseboard_Manufacturer + Baseboard_Product
| `HardwareID-11` | Manufacturer + Family
| `HardwareID-12` | Manufacturer + Enclosure Type
| `HardwareID-13` | Manufacturer + Baseboard_Manufacturer + Baseboard_Product
| `HardwareID-14` | Manufacturer

> On Windows, CHIDs are generated from the case sensitive ASCII SMBIOS values, and on Linux the same

Reviewer: Does Windows actually strip non-visible ASCII characters?
```suggestion
On Windows, CHIDs are generated from the ASCII representation of SMBIOS strings, and on Linux the same
```

Author: Nah it's worse than that; Windows just assumes the characters are ASCII. I'll use your suggestion tho.

mechanism is used. Additionally, on Linux, the Device Tree, DMI and `kenv` data sources

> are used to construct a *emulated* HWID.

Reviewer: construct emulations of the Microsoft CHIDs

> are used to construct a *emulated* HWID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are used to construct emulations of the Microsoft CHIDs.
```

When installing firmware and drivers in Windows vendors *already use* the generated HardwareID GUIDs
that match useful things like the BIOS vendor and the product SKU.

> Vendors can use the same GUID value for hardware matching in Windows and Linux firmware.

Reviewer: This is only true for SMBIOS, not DT, DMI or KENV.

Author: Agree, I've removed the 2nd line and qualified it a bit.

    {3faec92a-3ae3-5744-be88-495e90a7d541}   <- Manufacturer + Family + ProductName + ProductSku + BaseboardManufacturer + BaseboardProduct
    {660ccba8-1b78-5a33-80e6-9fb8354ee873}   <- Manufacturer + Family + ProductName + ProductSku
    {8dc9b7c5-f5d5-5850-9ab3-bd6f0549d814}   <- Manufacturer + Family + ProductName
    {178cd22d-ad9f-562d-ae0a-34009822cdbe}   <- Manufacturer + ProductSku + BaseboardManufacturer + BaseboardProduct
    {da1da9b6-62f5-5f22-8aaa-14db7eeda2a4}   <- Manufacturer + ProductSku
    {059eb22d-6dc7-59af-abd3-94bbe017f67c}   <- Manufacturer + ProductName + BaseboardManufacturer + BaseboardProduct
    {0cf8618d-9eff-537c-9f35-46861406eb9c}   <- Manufacturer + ProductName
    {f4275c1f-6130-5191-845c-3426247eb6a1}   <- Manufacturer + Family + BaseboardManufacturer + BaseboardProduct
    {db73af4c-4612-50f7-b8a7-787cf4871847}   <- Manufacturer + Family
    {5e820764-888e-529d-a6f9-dfd12bacb160}   <- Manufacturer + EnclosureKind
    {f8e1de5f-b68c-5f52-9d1a-f1ba52f1f773}   <- Manufacturer + BaseboardManufacturer + BaseboardProduct

>     {6de5d951-d755-576b-bd09-c5cf66b27234}   <- Manufacturer

Reviewer: Suggest to embed these with triple tics

Author: I just changed it to preformatted, it got insane.
